# Create Asset Transaction

**Create Asset** transaction is used to create a new asset for your account. The asset could be transferred/exchanged to/with others. The use cases for asset are pretty rich, e.g.:

* merchandise
* second hand goods
* certificate
* items in game
* ...

## Protocol definition

To create an asset you shall use `CreateAssetTx` message:

```proto
message CreateAssetTx {
  string moniker = 1;
  google.protobuf.Any data = 2;
  bool readonly = 3;
  bool transferrable = 4;
  uint32 ttl = 5;
  string parent = 6;
  string address = 7;
}
```

The most important field for an asset is its data - it could be anything that encoded into a `google.protobuf.Any`. Application can define and explain what's inside data, for example, if the asset is a movie ticket, application could define a Ticket message:

```proto
message Ticket {
  string row = 1;
  string seat = 2;
  string room = 3;
  string time = 4;
  string name = 5;
}
```

Other than the data field, all other fields are optional:

* moniker: the nick name for the asset.
* readonly: whether or not the asset is modifiable. By default an asset could be modified later by using update_asset.
* transferrable: whether or not the asset can be transferred to others. By default it is not allowed to be transferred.
* ttl: ttl for the asset after first consumption. By default it is unlimited usage. This is used when an asset is something like a park ticket, it could be valid for 24 hours after first use, or if it is an annual park permit, it could be valid for 365 days.
* parent: parent asset for this asset. For example, an event is an asset, and all the tickets generated by this event will set its parent to the event address.
* address: pre-computed asset address. This field is required, however Forge SDK will help to calculate the address.


Here's an example of creating an asset:

```elixir
> wallet = ForgeSdk.create_wallet()
> ForgeSdk.declare(ForgeAbi.DeclareTx.new(moniker: "sisyphus"), wallet: wallet)
> ticket = ForgeAbi.Ticket.new(row: "K", seat: "22", room: "3A", time: "03/04/2019 11:00am PST", name: "Avengers: Endgame")
> itx = ForgeAbi.CreateAsset.new(data: ForgeSdk.encode_any!(ticket), readonly: true, transferrable: true, ttl: 7200)
> ForgeSdk.create_asset(itx, wallet: wallet)
```
